# The Prophets

The prophetic tradition is one of the most distinctive features of the Abrahamic tradition. That tradition includes Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. While many \(most?\) religions include a dimension that could be interpreted as "prophetic"[^1], prophesy plays a special role in the Abrahamic religions quite unlike what we find in other scripture-based religions \(such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism\). In the Jewish cannon, we find these texts collected in the second of three books that make up the Tanakh, namely the Nevi'im, or literally "Prophets". In the Christian Old Testament, these writings are spread across the Historical Books \(specifically Kings\), the Major Prophets \(specifically Jeremiah\), and the Twelve Minor Prophets \(specifically Amos and Zechariah\).

We will cover these in chronological order beginning with Elijah in the 9th Century B.C.E. We will then move on to Amos in the 8th Century. Both of these prophets were active in the northern kingdom of Israel before it fell in 722 B.C.E. We will then consider selections from Jeremiah who was active in the southern kingdom of Judah during the fall of Jerusalem  in 587 B.C.E. Finally, we will read Zechariah who was active during the resettlement of Jerusalem around 520-518 B.C.E.

All of these prophets were active after the division of kingdom following the death of Solomon in 922 B.C.E. From Amos to Zechariah, we see the gradual fall, first of the Israel, then of Judah, and finally the restoration of Jerusalem at the turn of the 5th century B.C.E.

## What is a Prophet?

In common parlance, many of us think of prophets as fortune tellers, perhaps like Nostradamus. While it's true that prophets do often make predictions and are sometimes judged by their communities based on the accuracy of those predictions, such an understanding of the word "prophet" would really be missing the point. In fact, the meaning of the word "prophet", or נָבִיא \(_navi_\) seems to have changed over time. In the earlier accounts \(Kings and Amos, for example\) נָבִיא tends to take on a pejorative meaning, perhaps better rendered today as "false prophet". Indeed, the problem of false prophets continues on even into the book of Jeremiah and on into the New Testament. To get a sense of how the understanding of this concept evolved, we see in Amos 8:14, he says, "I am no prophet, nor a prophet's son; but I am a herdsman, and a dresser of sycamore trees." 14 centuries later and 750 miles south, the prophet Muhammad claiming emphatically that he _was_ a prophet, and not a mere poet.

This still does not get us any closer to what a prophet _is_ \(or was\), however. Some say a prophet is a doom sayer. While it's true that one of the things that distinguish a true prophet from a false one is that a true prophet often tells us something we don't want to hear and a false one is more likely to flatter us and say words to reinforce the status quo, that is not quite right either. All the prophets, all the way back to Abraham, and all the way up to Muhammad, do tend to prophesy doom, but that is not the whole, nor even the core of their message. Indeed, along with this portent of doom is also always a ray of hope. In some cases, that hope is very faint. In others, it shines brightly. But again, we still have not answered what a prophet is.

So if a prophet is not a fortune teller, and a prophet is not a doom sayer, what is a prophet? Some say a prophet is a messenger from the divine. Now we are finally starting to get close. But even that only tells us half of the picture, for a prophet is also an intermediary. A prophet speaks to the people on behalf of their God, but just as importantly, speaks to God on behalf of the people. The prophet stands in an uncomfortable position, torn between two worlds: the world of the people, and the world of the infinite. Because of the prophet's intimacy with the transcendent, she or he \(and several Hebrew prophets were women\) cannot ignore the ways in which people behave that violate the covenant between a creature and her creator.

In Overholt's \(2003\) treatment of the topic, he compares the prophets of the Hebrew Bible with figures we might more commonly think of as shamans and the comparison is apt. In either case, we have an individual who stands as an intermediary between the social and spiritual realms of existence. What makes the Abrahamic prophetic tradition remarkable is in the way these prophets played a role in the political and religious history of these peoples.

## References

[^1]: Overholt, Thomas W. 2003.Channels Of Prophecy. 1st ed. Eugene, Or.: Wipf & Stock.

