# The Qur'an

Some background: the 114 chapters, or suras \(literally, "enclosures"\) of the Qur'an were received over the course of 23 years. It's worth noting at the outset that the arrangement of the suras in the Qur'an is _not_ chronological. The arrangement seems to be based on several criteria, most notably, from longest to shortest \(with some exceptions\). The first exception is the first sura, the opening, which is considered by some to be the Muslim equivalent to the Lord's Prayer \(a.k.a. the "Our Father"\). It is a common prayer among Muslims. The second sura, then, is the longest, and arguably the most difficult. Thus, many Westerners, wishing to learn more about Islam, make the mistake of trying to read the Qur'an from cover to cover and are quickly overwhelmed and confused. This is not—it should be said—how Muslims approach the Qur'an in their lifetime. While a Muslim may recite the Qur'an from start to finish during the month of Ramadan, this is not how students of the Qur'an begin their studies. Rather, they begin at the end, with the shorter Meccan suras, as will we.

The majority of the suras \(by count\) were received in the first 13 years when the Prophet Mohammed was still living in Mecca. These are commonly referred to as the Meccan suras. They tend to be shorter and more poetic. This period has been further subdivided into "early" and "late" or even more finely into "first", "second", and "third" Meccan period.

In 622 CE, it became too dangerous for Mohammed and his community of Muslims to stay in Mecca, so they emigrated to Yathrib, later known as Medina. This is known as the Hijra and is the beginning of the Muslim calendar. the last 24 suras were received after this emigration. They tend to be much longer and focus more on legal and social matters as Mohammed was establishing political and military control of the area. Though they are only two dozen of them, they account for nearly half of the total volume.

In addition to the chronology of the composition of the Qur'an, it is also helpful to understand that the composition of individual suras is very unlike the composition of texts today. Many of us are familiar the 5-paragraph essay structure taught in American schools which can be summarized somewhat like this: "say what you are going to say, say it, say what you just said." Most contemporary non-fiction in the English language follows some variant of this format with an introduction and conclusion to the point that you can often learn everything you want to know from a text just by reading the first and last paragraph.

This is emphatically not the case when reading the Qur'an. Rather, Qur'anic suras tend to follow what has been called a "ring structure". This method of writing turns out to have been a very common way of organizing prose from Greece to China and everywhere in between, but it is particularly evident in the Qur'an. While we may be used to the main point of a text to be stated at the beginning and possibly repeated at the end, with the middle used to provide more detail and supporting evidence. In a ring structure, the emphasis is the exact opposite. The thesis, as it were, is in the center, and the opening and closing are in support of it. Angelica Neuwirth has done an excellent job analyzing this structure in the Meccan suras and we will use her analysis to guide our way through the Qur'an.

Another guide comes to us from the Sufi Al-Ghazali who identified various "jewels" and "pearls" in the Qur'an. The pearls and jewels are verses \(_ayat_\) that contain wisdom and divine knowledge \(respectively\). In the words of Muhammad Abul Quasem: "The jewels are those verses which especially concern the essence of God, His attributes and His works. This is the cognitive part. The pearls are the verses which describe the straight path and the verses which urge man \[sic\] to follow it. This is the practical part."[^1]



[^1]: Quasem, Muhammad Abul. \(1977\). _The Jewels of the Qur'an: Al-Ghazali's Theory_ \(p. 88\). University of Malaysia Press. Lembah Pantai, Kuala Lumpur.

